course-content/3-intro-to-dapps/2.rst, before:

Stage 2: Testing Your Token
===========================

.. important::

  The following videos may make note of the use of something called "Docker" and "containers", but do note that Docker has since been omitted.
  The same commands that are mentioned may be run directly on the machine without entering into the noted container.

`Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=17TlqJ0571ElgB9yimc4WnAWCRNKFq6dz>`_

1. Create a new tab in your terminal window or a new terminal window for our Ethereum node

.. note::
  While within the terminal window select File -> Open Terminal to create a new window.

  To create a new tab from within a terminal window:

  .. code-block:: bash

    ctrl+shft+t

- *Example output: Result is a new empty terminal, in the same directory you were in.*

.. code-block:: console

  adam@adam:~/Desktop/blg$

2. Start up your Ethereum node, ganache-cli

.. code-block:: bash

  ganache-cli

- *Example output:*
.. code-block:: console

  # ganache-cli
  Ganache CLI v6.0.3 (ganache-core: 2.0.2)
  [...]
  Listening on localhost:8545

3. Create a new window or tab for our Truffle commands

.. note::
  While within the terminal window select File -> Open Terminal to create a new window.

  To create a new tab from within a terminal window:

  .. code-block:: bash

    ctrl+shft+t

- *Example output: Result is a new empty terminal, in the same directory you were in.*

.. code-block:: console

  adam@adam:~/Desktop/blg$

4. Create the Test Case

.. note::
  - contracts/Token.sol has been provided.
  - Also one test file template has been provided in order to test the buy method was implemented correctly.

- Open the test file within Sublime, ``src/test/test_buy.js``

- Import the token's build artifacts, ``src/test/test_buy.js`` line 2

.. code-block:: javascript

  const Token = artifacts.require("./Token.sol")

- Define the owner account, note ``truffle test`` exposes the accounts array for us, line 6

.. code-block:: javascript

  const owner = accounts[0]

- Create a new instance of the token contract, line 10

.. code-block:: javascript

  const token = await Token.new({ from: owner })

- Specify the wei value of tokens you wish to purchase, line 13

.. code-block:: javascript

  const value = 100

- Send the transaction to the token's buy method, line 16

.. code-block:: javascript

  const txResponse = await token.buy({ from: owner, value })

- Pull the rate from the token, line 19

.. code-block:: javascript

  const rate = await token.rate()

- Compute the token amount to be minted to the buyer, line 22

.. code-block:: javascript

  const tokenAmount = value * rate

- Access the event object from the transaction receipt, line 25

.. code-block:: javascript

  const event = txResponse.logs[0]

- Assert the correct values were emitted, line 28-31

.. code-block:: javascript

  assert.equal(event.event, 'TokensMinted', 'TokensMinted event was not emitted.')
  assert.equal(event.args.to, owner, 'Incorrect to was emitted.')
  assert.equal(event.args.value, value, 'Incorrect value was emitted.')
  assert.equal(event.args.totalSupply.toNumber(), tokenAmount, 'Incorrect totalSupply was emitted.')

**Ensure the state of the contract is updated correctly**

- Assert the buyer's balance is correct, line 34-35

.. code-block:: javascript

  const balance = await token.balanceOf(owner)
  assert.equal(balance.toNumber(), tokenAmount, 'Incorrect token balance.')

- Assert the total supply is correct, line 38-39

.. code-block:: javascript

  const supply = await token.totalSupply()
  assert.equal(supply.toNumber(), tokenAmount, 'Incorrect total supply.')

5. Execute the Test Case

  - Change into the ``src`` directory

  .. code-block:: bash

    cd src

  - Execute the test

  .. code-block:: bash

    truffle test

- *Example output:*

.. code-block:: console

  $ truffle test
  Using network 'development'.
  Contract: Token.buy()
    ✓ should buy new tokens. (133ms)
  1 passing (148ms)
  #

Commit message:

add ganache boot gui image

course-content/3-intro-to-dapps/2.rst, after:

Stage 2: Testing Your Token
===========================

.. important::

  The following videos may make note of the use of something called "Docker" and "containers", but do note that Docker has since been omitted.
  The same commands that are mentioned may be run directly on the machine without entering into the noted container.

`Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=17TlqJ0571ElgB9yimc4WnAWCRNKFq6dz>`_

1. Create a new tab in your terminal window or a new terminal window for our Ethereum node

.. note::
  While within the terminal window select File -> Open Terminal to create a new window.

  To create a new tab from within a terminal window:

  .. code-block:: bash

    ctrl+shft+t

- *Example output: Result is a new empty terminal, in the same directory you were in.*

.. code-block:: console

  adam@adam:~/Desktop/blg$

2. Start up your Ethereum node, ganache

  - Click on the Ganache icon in the left dock
  - Successful boot up should result in the following

  .. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/course-resources/master/wallet-template/ganache-boot.png

3. Create a new window or tab for our Truffle commands

.. note::
  While within the terminal window select File -> Open Terminal to create a new window.

  To create a new tab from within a terminal window:

  .. code-block:: bash

    ctrl+shft+t

- *Example output: Result is a new empty terminal, in the same directory you were in.*

.. code-block:: console

  adam@adam:~/Desktop/blg$

4. Create the Test Case

.. note::
  - contracts/Token.sol has been provided.
  - Also one test file template has been provided in order to test the buy method was implemented correctly.

- Open the test file within Sublime, ``src/test/test_buy.js``

- Import the token's build artifacts, ``src/test/test_buy.js`` line 2

.. code-block:: javascript

  const Token = artifacts.require("./Token.sol")

- Define the owner account, note ``truffle test`` exposes the accounts array for us, line 6

.. code-block:: javascript

  const owner = accounts[0]

- Create a new instance of the token contract, line 10

.. code-block:: javascript

  const token = await Token.new({ from: owner })

- Specify the wei value of tokens you wish to purchase, line 13

.. code-block:: javascript

  const value = 100

- Send the transaction to the token's buy method, line 16

.. code-block:: javascript

  const txResponse = await token.buy({ from: owner, value })

- Pull the rate from the token, line 19

.. code-block:: javascript

  const rate = await token.rate()

- Compute the token amount to be minted to the buyer, line 22

.. code-block:: javascript

  const tokenAmount = value * rate

- Access the event object from the transaction receipt, line 25

.. code-block:: javascript

  const event = txResponse.logs[0]

- Assert the correct values were emitted, line 28-31

.. code-block:: javascript

  assert.equal(event.event, 'TokensMinted', 'TokensMinted event was not emitted.')
  assert.equal(event.args.to, owner, 'Incorrect to was emitted.')
  assert.equal(event.args.value, value, 'Incorrect value was emitted.')
  assert.equal(event.args.totalSupply.toNumber(), tokenAmount, 'Incorrect totalSupply was emitted.')

**Ensure the state of the contract is updated correctly**

- Assert the buyer's balance is correct, line 34-35

.. code-block:: javascript

  const balance = await token.balanceOf(owner)
  assert.equal(balance.toNumber(), tokenAmount, 'Incorrect token balance.')

- Assert the total supply is correct, line 38-39

.. code-block:: javascript

  const supply = await token.totalSupply()
  assert.equal(supply.toNumber(), tokenAmount, 'Incorrect total supply.')

5. Execute the Test Case

  - Change into the ``src`` directory

  .. code-block:: bash

    cd src

  - Execute the test

  .. code-block:: bash

    truffle test

- *Example output:*

.. code-block:: console

  $ truffle test
  Using network 'development'.
  Contract: Token.buy()
    ✓ should buy new tokens. (133ms)
  1 passing (148ms)
  #
