Stage 6: Token Interaction - GET
================================

`Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=11WaCAk_sc2S4W-az-zV-TD6Le3tGqx5q>`_

1. Load the token metadata from the contract

- Add the token's symbol to the state, line 23

.. code-block:: javascript

  tokenSymbol: 0,

- Load the token's symbol, line 52-55

.. code-block:: javascript

  // Set token symbol below
  token.symbol((err, tokenSymbol) => {
    this.setState({ tokenSymbol })
  })

- Add the token's rate to the state, line 23

.. code-block:: javascript

  rate: 1,

- Load the token's rate, line 58-61

.. code-block:: javascript

  // Set wei / token rate below
  token.rate((err, rate) => {
    this.setState({ rate: rate.toNumber() })
  })

**END Stage 6: Token Interaction - GET**

----

Stage 7: Load Account Balances
==============================

`Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1FH7__0b1pwuLT32Ay9efkKV81KPmHEeu>`_

1. Load the default account's ETH and Token balances, completing the ``loadAccountBalances`` method

- Confirm the token has been loaded, line 73-75

.. code-block:: javascript

  if (this.state.token) {

  }

- Add tokenBalance to the state, line 24

.. code-block:: javascript

  tokenBalance: 0,

- Set the token balance, line 75-78

.. code-block:: javascript

  // Set token balance below
  this.state.token.balanceOf(account, (err, balance) => {
    this.setState({ tokenBalance: balance.toNumber() })
  })

- Add ethBalance to the state, line 23

.. code-block:: javascript

  ethBalance: 0,

- Set the eth balance, line 81-84

.. code-block:: javascript

  // Set ETH balance below
  this.web3.eth.getBalance(account, (err, ethBalance) => {
    this.setState({ ethBalance })
  })

- Call the ``loadAccountBalances`` method on load, line 67

.. code-block:: javascript

  this.loadAccountBalances(defaultAccount)

- Also load the balances whenever a new account is selected in the dropdown, line 111

.. code-block:: javascript

  this.loadAccountBalances(this.state.availableAccounts[index].key)

2. View the default account balances and token information in your browser!

**END Stage 7: Load Available Account Balances**

----

Stage 8: Purchasing Tokens
========================================

`Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1qa87ghBevvIpNdYNohVfTiY8TXJjXLsV>`_

1. Add token amount to the state, line 21.

.. code-block:: javascript

  amount: 0,

2. Complete the method to buy tokens, sending a transaction to the token contract, line 99-104.

.. code-block:: javascript

  this.state.token.buy({
    from: this.web3.eth.accounts[this.state.defaultAccount],
    value: amount
  }, (err, res) => {
    err ? console.error(err) : console.log(res)
  })

3. In the GUI buy tokens with several available accounts.

.. note::
  Note transaction hash in the developer console

  *Example transaction hash:* ``0x4b396191e87c31a02e80160cb6a2661da6086c073f6e91e9bd1f796e29b0c983``

4. Refresh the browser or select a different account and come back, and view the account's balance of shiny new tokens!

**END Stage 8: Purchasing Tokens**

----

Stage 9: Events
===============

`Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1gSHTciut91F17sU_E7DYhpZJE4LoH-Lu>`_

1. Add an event to listen for when tokens are transferred and reload the account's balances, line 94-99

.. code-block:: javascript

  // Watch tokens transfer event below
  this.state.token.Transfer({ fromBlock: 'latest', toBlock: 'latest' })
  .watch((err, res) => {
    console.log(`Tokens Transferred! TxHash: ${res.transactionHash} \n ${JSON.stringify(res.args)}`)
    this.loadAccountBalances(this.web3.eth.accounts[this.state.defaultAccount])
  })

2. Load the contract events, line 66

.. code-block:: javascript

  this.loadEventListeners()

3. Buy tokens and view the log confirmation in the developer console and token and ETH balance updated dynamically!

**END Stage 9: Events**

----

Stage 10: Transfer Tokens
========================

**Try this portion on your own! [Solution noted at the bottom]**

The required components included:

1. Add the transferAmount and transferUser to the app's state.
2. Add the React transfer tokens form component.
3. Complete the transfer method to send the transfer transaction.

**Finally transfer tokens between accounts and review balances.**

**END Stage 10: Transfer Tokens**

----

Solutions
=========

Stage 10: Transfer Tokens
------------------------

`Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1JPno5OLKUPTMdXO2O4YeXch1SZFyG297>`_

1. Add the transferAmount and transferUser to the app's state, line 28 & 29.

.. code-block:: javascript

  transferAmount: '',
  transferUser: '',

2. Add the React transfer tokens form component, line 150-161.

.. code-block:: javascript

  <div>
    <h3>Transfer Tokens</h3>
    <TextField floatingLabelText="User to transfer tokens to." style={{width: 400}} value={this.state.transferUser}
      onChange={(e, transferUser) => { this.setState({ transferUser }) }}
    />
    <TextField floatingLabelText="Amount." style={{width: 100}} value={this.state.transferAmount}
      onChange={(e, transferAmount) => { this.setState({ transferAmount })}}
    />
    <RaisedButton label="Transfer" labelPosition="before" primary={true}
      onClick={() => this.transfer(this.state.transferUser, this.state.transferAmount)}
    />
  </div>


3. Complete the transfer method to send the transfer transaction, line 117-124.

.. code-block:: javascript

  if (amount > 0) {
    // Execute token transfer below
    this.state.token.transfer(user, amount, {
      from: this.web3.eth.accounts[this.state.defaultAccount]
    }, (err, res) => {
      err ? console.error(err) : console.log(res)
    })
  }


`Complete Wallet Solution <https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/wallet-eod2>`_
------------------------------
- ``git clone https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/wallet-eod2.git``
- ``cd wallet-eod2``
- ``git checkout tags/2.0``

----

Bonus: Extend Your Wallet
=========================

1. Add basic routing to render navigate between a new exchange and the existing wallet component--------

  1.1 Add the routing components

  `Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1hcdKMRLm6w4Pyewqse3uaIFQeg-s4VcU>`_

  - Change into the ```wallet-template` directory

    .. code-block::

      cd ~/Desktop/blg/wallet-template

  - Add the ``react-router-dom`` package to the project

    .. code-block:: console

      yarn add react-router-dom@4.3.1

  - *Example output:*

  .. code-block:: console

    wallet-template$ yarn add react-router-dom@4.3.1
    yarn add v1.2.0
    [1/4] Resolving packages...
    [..]
    Done in 5.34s.
    wallet-template$

  - Import the router components into the app, line 2

  .. code-block:: javascript

    import { BrowserRouter, Route, Link } from 'react-router-dom'

  - Wrap components with the router, ~line 172 & line 179

    .. code-block:: html

      <BrowserRouter>
      </BrowserRouter>

  - Add a button to navigate to the exchange route, ~line 137-139

  .. code-block:: html

    <Link to={'exchange'}>
      <RaisedButton label=">>> Exchange" secondary={true} fullWidth={true}/>
    </Link>

  - Confirm selection of the new button will change the route in the url to ``/exchange``

  1.2. Create the exchange component and the routes

  `Video Tutorial <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1qR09izk5ewS9_yFrnpzZARSXXqhNbZjb>`_

  - Add a template exchange component with a link back to the wallet, line 173-177

    .. code-block:: html

      const exchange = <div>
        <Link to={'/'}>
          <RaisedButton label="Wallet <<<" primary={true} fullWidth={true}/>
        </Link>
      </div>

  - Add a default route, line 186

  .. code-block:: html

      <Route exact={true} path="/" render={() => component}/>

  - And an exchange route, line 187

  .. code-block:: html

      <Route exact={true} path="/exchange" render={() => exchange}></Route>

2. Metamask Integration
-----------------------

- Ensure Metamask is installed, unlocked and connected to the local client(localhost:8545).
  - Metamask may be insalled `here <https://metamask.io/>`_

- Fund your Metamask account!

.. code-block:: console

  $ truffle console
  truffle(development> web3.eth.sendTransaction({ from: web3.eth.accounts[0], to: 'METAMASK_ADDRESS', value: 1e18 })

- Transfer tokens to your metamask account(from within the application).
- Add a conditional to use the Metamask web3 provider if present, `wallet-template/src/App.js#L35 <https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/exchange-eod3/blob/0779b46516bc5c697c5fb986cad1080b8c8121af/src/App.js#L49>`_

.. code-block:: javascript

  if (window.web3)
      this.web3 = new Web3(window.web3.currentProvider)
  else

- Refresh the browser and connect to your Metamask account. View your Metamask account now available within the application.

3. Sync an Ethereum node of your own
------------------------------------

.. note::
  Look to setup a node locally or via Azure.  Azure is a nice option to begin with as a node locally can be quite heavy and resource intensive.

- `Getting Started With Azure <https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/get-started/?v=17.39>`_

- Sync a Parity node to Kovan

  - Instructions to deploy to Azure `here <https://medium.com/@attores/creating-a-free-kovan-testnet-node-on-azure-step-by-step-guide-8f10127985e4>`_
  - `Parity Homepage <https://www.parity.io/>`_

- Sync a Geth node to Rinkeby

  - Instructions `here <https://gist.github.com/cryptogoth/10a98e8078cfd69f7ca892ddbdcf26bc>`_
  - `Geth Homepage <https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum>`_

----


