12. First define which combinations within the game board, which indexes, define a "win", line 35-49
--------------------------

::

    /**
     * Winning filters:
     * 0, 1, 2
     * 3, 4, 5
     * 6, 7, 8
     * 
     * 3 in a row:
     * [0,1,2] || [3,4,5] || [6,7,8] 
     * 
     * 3 in a column:
     * [0,3,6] || [1,4,7] || [2,5,8] 
     * 
     * Diagonals:
     * [0,4,8] || [6,4,2]
     */

13. Create a function to compute a winner and implement these combintations as filters to filter the board with, line 50-56
--------------------------

::

    function isWinner(address player) private view returns(bool) {
        uint8[3][8] memory winningFilters = [
            [0,1,2],[3,4,5],[6,7,8],  // rows
            [0,3,6],[1,4,7],[2,5,8],  // columns
            [0,4,8],[6,4,2]           // diagonals
        ];
    }
        
14. Create a for loop to iterate over each filter, within the ``isWinner`` function line 57-59
--------------------------

::

    for (uint8 i = 0; i < winningFilters.length; i++) {
        uint8[3] memory filter = winningFilters[i];
    }

15. Add a storage variable to define the winner, line 9
--------------------------

::
    
    address public winner_;

16. Within the above ``for loop`` compare each filter against the game board and see if the player has won with their latest turn, line 60-66 
--------------------------

::

    if (
        gameBoard_[filter[0]]==player && 
        gameBoard_[filter[1]]==player && 
        gameBoard_[filter[2]]==player
    ) {
        return true;
    }

17. At the end of the ``takeTurn`` function, after each turn is taken see if there is a winner, update the storage variable if there is a winner, line 35-37
--------------------------

::

    if (isWinner(msg.sender)) {
        winner_ = msg.sender;
    }

**Try it out! See if the winner is set if 3 in a row is found**

.. important:: 

    Are we done?  

    ... still a few problems

    - Turns can still continue to be taken, no notification that the game has ended
    - What happens in the case of a draw?


18. Add a storage variable to signify the game has ended, line 10
--------------------------

::

    bool public gameOver_;

19. If a winner was found update that the game has ended, within the ``takeTurn`` function line 38
--------------------------

::

    gameOver_ = true;   

20.  Add a storage variable to count how many turns have been taken, will use this variable to define if a draw has occured, line 11
--------------------------

::

    uint256 public turnsTaken_;

21. After a turn is taken update the turns taken storage variable, within the ``takeTurn`` function line 36
--------------------------

::

    turnsTaken_++;

22.  Add a conditional that if 9 turns have been taken the game has ended with no winner, within the ``takeTurn`` function line 41-43
--------------------------

::

    else if (turnsTaken_ == 9) {
        gameOver_ = true;
    }

23. Add a last pre condition check that the game is still active, within the ``takeTurn`` function line 30
--------------------------

::

    require(!gameOver_, "Sorry game has concluded.");
    

**Try it out!!**

1. Start a game with account 1 and 2
2. Take turns back and forth
    - view turns taken are updating the game board
    - view no winner yet
    - view game has not ended
3. View that the winner has been set
4. View that the game has ended
5. Try and take another turn and view the output in Remix's console