course-content/blockchain-fundamentals.md, before:

# Blockchain Fundamentals
1. [https://ethstats.net/](https://ethstats.net/)
2. [http://ethgasstation.info/](http://ethgasstation.info/)
3. [https://etherscan.io/](https://etherscan.io/)
    * [Augur](https://etherscan.io/token/REP#readContract)
4. [https://www.ethernodes.org/](https://www.ethernodes.org/network/1)

5. Hash Function

```
$ pip3 install pysha3==1.0.2
$ python3
>>> from sha3 import keccak_256
>>> keccak_256(bytes(1)).hexdigest()
bc36789e7a1e281436464229828f817d6612f7b477d66591ff96a9e064bcc98a

>>> keccak_256(bytes(2)).hexdigest()
54a8c0ab653c15bfb48b47fd011ba2b9617af01cb45cab344acd57c924d56798
```

6. [Mining Script](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/scripts/proof_of_work_mining.py)
```
// Difficulty Increasing
python3 proof_of_work_mining.py 0066d6a68c353ec7c7726ffa7389725b6215e463baf2baf1d4f9d97b514659
python3 proof_of_work_mining.py 0006d6a68c353ec7c7726ffa7389725b6215e463baf2baf1d4f9d97b514659
python3 proof_of_work_mining.py 0000d6a68c353ec7c7726ffa7389725b6215e463baf2baf1d4f9d97b514659
```

7. [Bitcoin 51% Attack Cost](https://gobitcoin.io/tools/cost-51-attack/)

8. [Remix](https://ethereum.github.io/browser-solidity/#version=soljson-v0.4.15+commit.bbb8e64f.js)

9. [DappDeveloper.sol](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/samples/DappDeveloper.sol)

10. Exceed Block Gas Limit

_Add the below to DappDeveloper.sol_
```
uint256 value_;

function reachGasLimit() {
  for (uint256 i = 0; i < 10**18; i++) {
      value_ = i;
      value_ = i + 1;
      value_ = i + 2;
  }
}
```
11. [Token Exercise](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/exercises/Token.sol), [Solution](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/solutions/TokenSolution_EOD1.sol)

[Download Video Tutorial](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/raw/master/course-content/video-tutorials/token-development.mp4)

__11.1__ Copy the exercise over to remix.

__11.2__ Note LoggingErrors pattern contract inherited and SafeMath library utilized.

__11.3__ Compile and deploy the contract. Confirm variables and methods are available.

__11.4__ Update the contract metadata to be your own! Line 55 - 56.
```
string public constant symbol = 'BLG';
string public constant name = 'Blockchain Learning Group Community Token';
```

__11.5__ Complete the mint method.
  - Only allow the owner to mint tokens, line 94
  ```
  if (msg.sender != owner_)
    return error('msg.sender != owner, Token.mint()');
  ```
  - Confirm the value to be mint is greater than zero, line 98
  ```
  if (_value <= 0)
    return error('Cannot mint a value of <= 0, Token.mint()');
  ```
  - Confirm you are not trying to mint to address 0, line 102
  ```
  if (_to == address(0))
    return error('Cannot mint tokens to address(0), Token.mint()');
  ```
  - Update the total supply and the user's balance, line 108
  ```
  totalSupply_ = totalSupply_.add(_value);
  balances_[_to] = balances_[_to].add(_value);
  ```
  - Finally emit events to notify the outside world, 112
  ```
  LogTokensMinted(_to, _value, totalSupply_);
  Transfer(address(0), _to, _value);
  ```

__11.6__ Compile, deploy and confirm you can mint to an address. Confirm balance updated in balances_ mapping.

__11.7__ Complete the transferFrom method.
  - Confirm not transferring an amount of 0, line 142
  ```
  if (_amount <= 0)
    return error('Cannot transfer amount <= 0, Token.transferFrom()');
  ```
  - Confirm the owner has a sufficient balance to transfer from, line 146
  ```
  if (_amount > balances_[_from])
    return error('From account has an insufficient balance, Token.transferFrom()');
  ```
  - Confirm the spender has a sufficient allowance to transfer, line 150
  ```
  if (_amount > allowed_[_from][msg.sender])
    return error('msg.sender has insufficient allowance, Token.transferFrom()');
  ```
  - Update the balances, subtracting from the from addressing and adding to the to, line 156
  ```
  balances_[_from] = balances_[_from].sub(_amount);
  balances_[_to] = balances_[_to].add(_amount);
  ```
  - Reduce the spender's allowance,  160
  ```
  allowed_[_from][msg.sender] = allowed_[_from][msg.sender].sub(_amount);
  ```
  - Finally emit an event of the transfer, 163
  ```
  Transfer(_from, _to, _amount);
  ```

__11.8__ Compile and deploy and confirm transfer and transferFrom working.  
__11.9__ Note error logging if insufficient allowance and other errors correct.

Usage:
1. minting
2. Transfers
3. Approvals
4. TransferFrom

*Save this contract to disk. We will be using it again!*

Commit message:

updated mining script to be in docker container

course-content/blockchain-fundamentals.md, after:

# Blockchain Fundamentals
1. [https://ethstats.net/](https://ethstats.net/)
2. [https://etherscan.io/](https://etherscan.io/)
    * [Augur](https://etherscan.io/token/REP#readContract)
3. [https://www.ethernodes.org/](https://www.ethernodes.org/network/1)

4. Hash Function
- Run and attach into the container
```
$ docker run -dit --name=blg-env blockchainlg/dapp-dev-env
$ docker exec -it blg-env bash
# python3
>>> from sha3 import keccak_256
>>> keccak_256(bytes(1)).hexdigest()
bc36789e7a1e281436464229828f817d6612f7b477d66591ff96a9e064bcc98a

>>> keccak_256(bytes(2)).hexdigest()
54a8c0ab653c15bfb48b47fd011ba2b9617af01cb45cab344acd57c924d56798
```

5. [Mining Script](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/scripts/proof_of_work_mining.py)
- From within the docker container
```
# cd /blg
blg# python3 proof_of_work_mining.py 0066d6a68c353ec7c7726ffa7389725b6215e463baf2baf1d4f9d97b514659
blg# python3 proof_of_work_mining.py 0006d6a68c353ec7c7726ffa7389725b6215e463baf2baf1d4f9d97b514659
blg# python3 proof_of_work_mining.py 0000d6a68c353ec7c7726ffa7389725b6215e463baf2baf1d4f9d97b514659
```
6. [Bitcoin 51% Attack Cost](https://gobitcoin.io/tools/cost-51-attack/)
7. [Remix](https://ethereum.github.io/browser-solidity/#version=soljson-v0.4.15+commit.bbb8e64f.js)
8. [DappDeveloper.sol](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/samples/DappDeveloper.sol)
9. Exceed Block Gas Limit

_Add the below to DappDeveloper.sol_
```
uint256 value_;

function reachGasLimit() {
  for (uint256 i = 0; i < 10**18; i++) {
      value_ = i;
      value_ = i + 1;
      value_ = i + 2;
  }
}
```
10. [Token Exercise](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/exercises/Token.sol), [Solution](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/blob/master/solutions/TokenSolution_EOD1.sol)

[Download Video Tutorial](https://github.com/Blockchain-Learning-Group/dapp-fundamentals/raw/master/course-content/video-tutorials/token-development.mp4)

__10.1__ Copy the exercise over to remix.

__10.2__ Note LoggingErrors pattern contract inherited and SafeMath library utilized.

__10.3__ Compile and deploy the contract. Confirm variables and methods are available.

__10.4__ Update the contract metadata to be your own! Line 55 - 56.
```
string public constant symbol = 'BLG';
string public constant name = 'Blockchain Learning Group Community Token';
```

__10.5__ Complete the mint method.
  - Only allow the owner to mint tokens, line 94
  ```
  if (msg.sender != owner_)
    return error('msg.sender != owner, Token.mint()');
  ```
  - Confirm the value to be mint is greater than zero, line 98
  ```
  if (_value <= 0)
    return error('Cannot mint a value of <= 0, Token.mint()');
  ```
  - Confirm you are not trying to mint to address 0, line 102
  ```
  if (_to == address(0))
    return error('Cannot mint tokens to address(0), Token.mint()');
  ```
  - Update the total supply and the user's balance, line 108
  ```
  totalSupply_ = totalSupply_.add(_value);
  balances_[_to] = balances_[_to].add(_value);
  ```
  - Finally emit events to notify the outside world, 112
  ```
  LogTokensMinted(_to, _value, totalSupply_);
  Transfer(address(0), _to, _value);
  ```

__10.6__ Compile, deploy and confirm you can mint to an address. Confirm balance updated in balances_ mapping.

__10.7__ Complete the transferFrom method.
  - Confirm not transferring an amount of 0, line 142
  ```
  if (_amount <= 0)
    return error('Cannot transfer amount <= 0, Token.transferFrom()');
  ```
  - Confirm the owner has a sufficient balance to transfer from, line 146
  ```
  if (_amount > balances_[_from])
    return error('From account has an insufficient balance, Token.transferFrom()');
  ```
  - Confirm the spender has a sufficient allowance to transfer, line 150
  ```
  if (_amount > allowed_[_from][msg.sender])
    return error('msg.sender has insufficient allowance, Token.transferFrom()');
  ```
  - Update the balances, subtracting from the from addressing and adding to the to, line 156
  ```
  balances_[_from] = balances_[_from].sub(_amount);
  balances_[_to] = balances_[_to].add(_amount);
  ```
  - Reduce the spender's allowance,  160
  ```
  allowed_[_from][msg.sender] = allowed_[_from][msg.sender].sub(_amount);
  ```
  - Finally emit an event of the transfer, 163
  ```
  Transfer(_from, _to, _amount);
  ```

__10.8__ Compile and deploy and confirm transfer and transferFrom working.  
__10.9__ Note error logging if insufficient allowance and other errors correct.

Usage:
1. minting
2. Transfers
3. Approvals
4. TransferFrom

*Save this contract to disk. We will be using it again!*
